This month we're going to discuss the theme, Pray continually, so that you may not enter
into temptation.
Those words of Jesus are recorded at Matthew 26 verse 41.
In this discussion, we'll answer three important questions.
One, why did Jesus pray?
Two, what temptations did He face?
In three, what lessons can we learn from Jesus' example?
Let's start by reading that verse together.
That's Matthew 26 and verse 41.
Keep on the watch and pray continually so that you may not enter into temptation.
The Spirit, of course, is eager or willing, but the flesh is weak.
Why did Jesus pray?
He has uttered these words on the final night before His execution.
No doubt this was the most difficult evening that Jesus had ever faced.
The surrounding verses tell us that He began to feel grieved and to be greatly troubled.
It's hard for us to comprehend fully the stress and pressure Jesus was facing on that night.
He knew that Satan was about to throw everything He could at Him.
Jesus also knew that He'd soon die an agonizing death.
But something else was even harder for Him to handle.
He realized that He was about to be falsely charged and convicted of the despicable crime
of blasphemy against Jehovah's holy name.
The study note on Matthew 26 verse 39 says, Jesus, no doubt felt great concern over the
reproach that His death, as one charge with blasphemy and sedition, could bring on God,
moving Him to pray that this cup pass away from Him.
In the face of all that pressure, would Jesus remain faithful until death?
The lives of countless people hung in the balance.
Even more important, His Father's reputation was involved.
Under all that intense emotional stress, what did Jesus do?
He prayed not just once, but three times.
Not as how Luke describes what happened as recorded at Luke 22 and verse 44.
But He was in such agony that He kept praying more earnestly.
And His sweat became as drops of blood falling to the ground.
What's the lesson for us?
Well, think about it.
Jesus knew Satan well.
Jesus had observed from heaven all the temptations that Satan uses in His efforts to ensnare
God's servants.
Yet Jesus did not feel that He could easily handle whatever the temptome might place
before Him.
So this is a clear lesson for us.
If the perfect Son of God felt the need to pray for divine help and strength, how much
more so should we?
How appropriate then is the admonition, pray continually so that you may not enter into
temptation.
But what does it mean to enter into temptation?
The watchtower back in 1951 explained,
We ourselves, under Satan's influence, create the temptation by thinking how nice it
would be to do or have something contrary to God's will.
And they're not dismissing the desire created by this improper thinking by considering
it more and more.
In this way, we are drawn out and led to ignore God's counsel and warning.
We enter into temptation.
Prayer helps us when we face temptation.
It helps us to focus on what your hover wants us to do and to ask Him for the strength
not to enter into temptation.
Our second question.
What temptations did Jesus face while here on earth?
You probably immediately think of the occasion shortly after Jesus' baptism when He was
tempted three times by the devil.
Let's quickly summarize those three temptations.
First, Jesus was asked to turn stones into bread at a time when He was extremely hungry.
Basically, Satan appealed to Jesus' desire for food.
However, Jesus immediately rejected the temptation to satisfy that desire in an inappropriate way.
Second, Satan challenged Jesus to throw himself off the temple battlement.
Jesus rejected this temptation as well.
Why?
Because He knew that such a spectacular display would amount to a prideful testing of Jehovah.
Finally, Satan offered Jesus all the kingdoms of the world and their glory.
But at what price?
Satan demanded that Jesus offer Him in return an act of worship.
What was Jesus' answer?
He flatly refused saying, go away, Satan.
Have you had to face similar temptations?
Or you might quickly answer, no one has asked me to turn stones into bread or to jump
off a tall building and certainly no one has offered me the rulership of all the governments
in the world.
But notice please, we said similar, not the same.
So have you faced similar temptations?
No doubt you have.
Most of us have faced temptations involving fleshly desires.
There may have been temptations to commit immorality or temptations that appeal to greed
or an unbalanced concern about material things.
Other temptations may have appealed to our pride or tested our humility or our desire
to impress others.
And who of us hasn't been tempted by opportunities offered to us by Satan's world for wealth, power,
or position?
No matter what temptation comes our way though, remember Jesus' words, pray continually
so that you may not enter into temptation.
But were those the only temptations that Jesus faced?
No.
How do we know?
Well, notice Luke's words found at Luke chapter 4 and verse 13.
So the devil, having finished all the temptation, departed from him until another convenient
time.
Did Satan never come back again to tempt Jesus?
He must have, because of what we're told at Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 15.
Let's read that.
For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses.
But we have one who has been tested in all respects as we have.
But without sin.
Have you ever wondered what other convenient times Satan selected to test Jesus?
Well, let's consider some possibilities.
One example occurred in 32 CE, about two and a half years after the initial temptations.
Let's turn to John chapter 6 and verse 15.
Then Jesus, knowing they were about to come and seize him to make him king, withdrew
again to the mountain all alone.
This seems like a similar temptation to what Jesus had already faced.
But this time the setting was different.
Satan didn't directly offer the kingship to Jesus.
There was no demand for Jesus to worship the devil.
Rather those following Jesus wanted to make him their king.
This temptation was going to be by popular demand.
How did Jesus react?
Well, even before they could make their move, Jesus withdrew from them to a mountain, just
by Himself.
And what did He do on the mountain?
We find the answer in a detail added in the parallel account recorded by Matthew.
Let's read it together.
It's Matthew 14 and verse 23.
After sending the crowds away, He went up on the mountain by Himself to pray.
Yes, Jesus went there, not just to avoid the crowds, but to pray.
The third question.
What lesson can we learn from Jesus' example?
Even though we may have passed the test or avoided entering into temptation in the past,
we shouldn't be surprised if a similar temptation may arise again, but in a different form
or situation and at a convenient time, for whom?
For Satan, not us.
Another occasion occurred when Jesus and His apostles were in the vicinity of Mount
Hermann near Caesarea Philippine.
Jesus' apostles had just acknowledged Him as the Christ, the Son of the Living God.
So Jesus took the opportunity to expand their thinking further.
Notice what's recorded, a Matthew chapter 16 and verse 21.
From that time forward, Jesus began explaining to His disciples that He must go to Jerusalem
and suffer many things from the elders, and chief priests, and scribes, and be killed,
and on the third day be raised up.
What was the reaction of His apostles to this information?
Let's read on in verse 22.
Let this Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him, saying, Be kind to yourself, Lord.
You will not have this happened to you at all.
Although these words were uttered by a close friend, Jesus immediately recognized that
they reflected Satan's wishes, not Jehovah's.
So He firmly responded, Get behind me, Satan.
You are a stumbling block to me because you think not God's thoughts, but those of men.
Although this account doesn't specifically refer to Jesus praying at that time, we know
that Jesus was a man of prayer.
The apostle Paul tells us at Hebrews 5.7 that during his life on earth Christ offered
up supplications and also petitions with strong outcries and tears.
So no doubt those prayers helped Jesus to focus on the reason why He came to earth.
That clear focus helped him to see that Peter's misguided counsel would only help to further
the temptus cause.
What does this teach us?
This shows us that temptations don't always come from those who are Jehovah's enemies.
Some who are close to us may even serve Satan's ends unintentionally as was the case with Peter.
He could be an employer, a workmate, a schoolmate, a friend, a relative, a parent, a brother,
or a marriagemate.
Let's examine another example of how Satan returned to Jesus.
This time it was by means of the religious leaders.
They attacked Jesus verbally, misquoting scripture, and hurling senseless accusations at him.
But Jesus understood what they were up to, and frankly told them, you are from your father
the devil.
We shouldn't be surprised if apostates and other opposes use similar tactics today.
Just as Jesus was accused of blasphemy and political sedition, so two God's people have
been labeled as extremists and have been the victims of all sorts of false accusations.
Like Jesus, we remember who really is behind all these attacks.
Satan, the great tempter.
What will help us to avoid the temptation of giving up because of discouragement?
How can we successfully handle all these types of attacks?
Paul tells us what to do.
We read at Ephesians 6 and verse 11, put on the complete suit of armor from God so that
you may be able to stand firm against the crafty axe of the devil.
After speaking about the importance of putting on the spiritual suit of armor, Paul goes
on to say at verse 18 that this should be done together with every form of prayer and
supplication as we carry on prayer on every occasion in spirit.
So what have we learned from our discussion?
He seems that Satan didn't try again to tempt Jesus directly, but he was persistent.
He kept coming back in different guises.
He used others to give Jesus wrong advice to oppose and ridicule him as well as to try
to make him a king.
Perhaps we've rejected some serious temptations in the past, but remember, Satan doesn't give
up on us just because he failed in the past.
At a time convenient to him, he may come back to tempt us with something completely different
or the same temptation dressed up in a different form.
So what's the key to not entering into temptation?
We need to remember and apply Jesus' admonition.
Pray continually so that you may not enter into temptation.